[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: Let's
go back into Chrome.
Because Chrome did tout that they were
gonna have some super super cool animation
tools at Chrome Dev Summit this year.
Hang on, hang on, we can do this.
I don't want you there anymore,
I want you here.
There you go.
That's better.
Thank you, Chrome.
Thank you for listening to me.
I don't want to see timeline.
I want to go to.
Have to hit escape and
then go to animations.
I'm just gonna make this one bigger.
If I can, there we go, aw I can't.
So anyway.
Elements, there we go.
Making the animations really big.
Now I'm gonna refresh it.
So check it out.
You see these little things
happening down here.
These are actually
collections of animations and
they let you skip between them.
So when I click this to go down,
this should result in
another set of animations.
This tool may or
may not be handy to you in your workplace.
But the idea is that you can
jump back into the animation and
have access to its timeline.
See how I'm moving her forward and
backward and her screaming kicking or
all the way back to the beginning here and
I can actually like stop [SOUND].
I have a little bit more control.
It's a new feature, it's not as
100% useful as I'd like it to be,
but I admire the chrome team for
their ambition in creating this
animation and this animation tool set.
You can even hit pause
you can just remove them.
It's a good idea.
I like where they're going.
>> Rachel Nabors: But
I actually have some experience with some
really cool animation tools
that I had some fun input on.
There is this site that I
helped build with Mozilla.
I'm just going to say,
you know a disclaimer, I worked on this.
Basically, it's this little educational
site that shows you how to use
the dev tools over at
Firefox Developer Edition.
And it's neat because not
only is it a tutorial.
>> Rachel Nabors: Not
But it also rewards you for
doing things right with knowledge.
It's an underwater tour, they're little
videos that show you how to use each tool.
So what we're doing here is you'll
notice that this fish, he has a paused,
he is paused in his animation,
it's not set to running.
But we can use the animations tab.
Boop, boop, there's the animations tab,
to actually hit play and
there he goes and that triggers
an event which gets all of his
little swimmy,
flashy buddies to join the party.
And the other fun thing is
after we get him there,
We can actually go all the way up and
check out all of the fishies
that are swimming and
we can actually manipulate all of their
different timelines together and hit play.
That's a lot of fun.
There's examples for the cubic-bezier
tools which we already experimented with.
Actually I'm going to turn
the motion off for this.
So this one might induce seizures in
some folks but this is now flashing at
such a rate that you can see that
it's not going to cause seizures.
This is a low motion alternative,
>> Rachel Nabors: But
the idea there was that you would scrub
to see that the squid aren't actually
flashing red and white, they're actually
fading really really fast between the two.
Just like they do in the wild.
Let's see,
do I have any other really cool tools?
So basically I think I'm
just showing you off,
showing off these cool little
animation tools over here.
I love the timeline.
I love how cute it is.
I love how it lets us see
exactly who's moving and
then we can see the different changes
like this is that cheek patch.
See, can we jump to this guy?
Scroll interview.
There we go.
Hit play and notice how I hit play on just
that blinking cheat patch right there.
And if I want to get them all playing,
I go all the way
up, and hit them all.
There we go.
Right now the two browsers are sort
of caught in a death struggle for
who can create the best
timeline tools first.
I'll be quite blunt.
Neither of these tools are perfect.
Part of that is because the original
tools were flash based.
They were a UI built by
a commercial company, Adobe.
And their solution worked for
their developers.
It doesn't necessarily mean that
that's the solution that's going to
work with the web.
Flash had limitations.
Limitations makes tools easy to use.
The web has its different kind of
imitations and limitations, and
those limitations can make it
harder to build tools for.
I'm hoping that we will see a competitive
race to make the best animation tools
where the best ones will win.
The best ones for the community that is.
That's my hopes.
Experiment with both of them,
figure out which one makes you happier.
For me, using Firefox developer tools
made the project go so much faster and
I had a lot of input
on this isn't working.
This is working, etc.
So pick what works for
your workflow, but do know that
there are animation tools, and
when you are developing animations, they
make animation development so much faster.
Especially being able to change
things like Bezier curves and
durations on the fly, and
being able to scrub back and forth and
slow down the overall animation time.
So much useful.
>> Rachel Nabors: All right.
Here's the fun part where I get to give
you a little taste of what's coming up.
The Web Animation API is actually
what lets both Chrome and
Firefox build tools like these.
I've mentioned it throughout this talk,
and this workshop.
CSS animations are great but
they can't do it all, and
specifically the web animations API
underlies the CSS animations and
you can write animation
in the web animation API.
It's not just for browsers to access CSS
animations that you can build tools with.
It's also for you to build animations
with using JavaScript and CSS properties.
Just as a little sample of what it
can do that CSS on its own can't.
>> Rachel Nabors: When we add cats with
CSS you'll notice that they're not
all running in sync.
That's because each one of these
animations starts at a different
time on the document system clock.
So all of these animations
are starting at different times and
we physically have no way
of synchronizing them.
There is no way to synchronize
those animations with CSS, but
with the web animations API,
we are actually able to copy
the current time of each cat and then use
it for each other cat that we're making.
This way they all run in sync,
no matter when we add them useful,
not useful, use cases will tell.
And another fun thing which is
useful from a usability perspective,
we have access to that playback rate.
So what happens is we can speed up
how long this animation is taking or
we can slow it down.
Well, I slowed it down too much.
>> Rachel Nabors: If you're interested in
things like that I do encourage you check
out these CodePens, and
keep an eye on MDN's web animation,
API documentation as I'm currently
updating it and writing it.
And future generations will get
to go there and check it out.
For more information just keep
an eye on rachelnabors.com/waapi,
or web animation API.
You can find me on rachelnabors at
Twitter or at rachelnabors.com.
I would be ever so happy if you joined
the slack animation at work community.
This is a great place to meet other people
who are working with CSS animations,
the web animation API,
GSAP, all things animated.
We are all good friends and we'd love
to have you sign up for web animation
weekly if you haven't already, all new
animation of elements go out there weekly.
And if you have the chance,
I have a five minute survey I would
be super happy if you would take it.
I will even give you a coupon for
one of my other online
courses as a special thanks.
Lastly, let's be animation friends.
>> Speaker 2: There is one
last question from Kevin.
>> Rachel Nabors: All right.
>> Speaker 2: What are you most looking
forward to do with animation and
an API you haven't explored yet?
>> Rachel Nabors: I'm not
sure how to interpret that.
Is that an API that I haven't explored,
like an API that I would like to use with
animation that hasn't been made yet?
Or is that the web animation's API,
something I haven't done with it yet?
>> Speaker 2: What you're looking forward
to not doing was CSS transitions and
animation with WAPI.
>> Rachel Nabors: I'm actually looking
forward to be able to move behavior fully
into JavaScript.
Because right now we are having
to define behavior in CSS,
this thing should move like this.
But, for
a lot of us i know is comfortable to move
that sort of behavior into JavaScript, and
to have JavaScript handlers doing this,
if animations are available to them or
not doing it at all and just substituting
jump cuts if it's not the case.
I would love the idea that you could build
a JavaScript library from scratch to just
handle your user interfaces
animations the way you want.
Not having to download a big
beefy library like GreenSock.
Not having to use
somebody's SAS functions,
just being able to build something
specifically for your needs.
That's the most exciting part for
me of the web animations API.
It will really let people approach
animation from a more programmatic angle.
>> Rachel Nabors: Good question, Kevin.